absolute link n. A hyperlink to the exact location of a file on a file server, the World Wide Web, or a company intranet.

absolute path n. A path to a file that begins with the drive identifier and root directory or with a network share and ends with the complete file name.

absolute pointing device n. A mechanical or physical pointing device whose location is associated with the position of the on-screen cursor.

absolute value n. The magnitude of a number, irrespective of its sign (+ or –). An absolute value is always greater than or equal to zero.

abstract data type n. A data set defined by the programmer in terms of the information it can contain and the operations that can be performed with it. 

abstraction n. The use of specialized software, such as an application programming interface (API), as a means of shielding software from device dependencies or the complexities of underlying software.

abstract syntax n. A data structure description that is independent of hardware structures and encodings.

Abstract Syntax Notation One n. The ISO standard notation for independent specification of data types and structures for syntax conversion.

abstract syntax tree n. A treelike representation of programs used in many integrated programming environments and structure-oriented editors.

accelerator card n. A printed circuit board that replaces or augments the computer’s main microprocessor, resulting in faster performance.

acceptable use policy n. A statement issued by an ISP (Internet service provider) or an online information service that indicates what activities users may or may not engage in while logged into the service.

acceptance test n. A formal evaluation of a hardware product performed by the customer, usually at the factory, to verify that the product is performing according to specifications.

Access n. Microsoft's software of relational database–management for the Windows desktop platform. Part of the family of Microsoft Office products, Access in its most recent version (Access 2002) supports Web technology for building, managing, and sharing data.

access arm n. A mechanical arm that moves the read or write head(s) over the surface of a disk in a disk drive.

accessibility n. A quality of software, hardware, or a complete computer system that makes it usable by people with one or more physical disabilities, such as restricted mobility, blindness, or deafness.

accessibility aids n. Utilities that make computers easier to use for people with disabilities.

access key n. A key combination, such as ALT+F, that moves the focus to a menu, a command, or a control, without using the mouse.

access privileges n. The type of operations permitted a given user for a certain system resource on a network or a file server.

accounting file n. A file generated by a controller of printer that keeps track of the number of pages printed per job as well as the user that requested the print job.

account name n. The part of an e-mail address that identifies a user or an account on an e-mail system.

account policy n. On local area networks and multiuser operating systems, a set of rules governing whether a new user is allowed access to the system and whether an existing user’s rights are expanded to include additional system resources.

accumulator n. A register used for logic or arithmetic, usually to count items or accumulate a sum.

accuracy n. The degree to which the result of a calculation or measurement approximates the true value.

Acrobat n. A program that converts a fully formatted document created on a Windows, Macintosh, MS-DOS, or UNIX platform into a Portable Document Format (PDF) file that can be viewed on several different platforms.

Acrobat Reader n. A free program produced and distributed by Adobe Systems, Inc., for displaying and printing documents that are in Portable Document Format (PDF).

active-matrix display n. A liquid crystal display (LCD) made from a large array of liquid crystal cells using active-matrix technology. The active matrix is a method of addressing an array of simple LC cells—one cell per pixel.

Active Platform n. A Microsoft development platform that offers a standardized approach to incorporating Internet and distributed computing technologies in client/server applications. Microsoft Windows 9x, Microsoft Windows NT, and Microsoft Internet Explorer 4.x (and later) provide the basis for the Active Platform.

active program n. The program currently in control of a microprocessor.

Active Server n. The component of Microsoft’s Active Platform based on server. Comprised of a set of technologies that includes DCOM (distributed component object model), Active Server Pages, Microsoft Transaction Server, and message queues, Active Server provides support for developing component-based, scalable, high-performance Web applications on Microsoft Windows NT servers.

Active Server Pages n. A Web-oriented technology developed by Microsoft that is designed to enable serverside (as opposed to client-side) scripting. Active Server Pages are text files that can contain not only text and HTML tags as in standard Web documents, but also commands written in a scripting language (such as VBScript or JavaScript) that can be carried out on the server.

active star n. A form of the star network topology in which the central computer actively regenerates and retransmits all signals.

ActiveStore n. A Microsoft initiative, introduced in 1998, for supporting integration of applications used in retail environments regardless of the developing vendor. ActiveStore provides a common user interface, base system services (such as security and crash recovery), common access to data across applications, and communication between applications.

addressing n. The process of assigning or referring to an address. In programming, the address is typically a value specifying a memory location.

address mode n. The method used to indicate an address in memory.

address modification n. The process of updating an address of a location in memory during computation.

address munging n. The practice of modifying an e-mail address in posts to newsgroups or other Internet forums to foil computer programs that gather e-mail addresses.

address register n. A register (a high-speed memory circuit) that holds an address where specific data can be found for the transfer of information.

address resolution n. The identification of a computer’s IP address by finding the corresponding match in an address mapping table.

Apache n. A free open-source server introduced in 1995 by the Apache Group as an extension to, and improvement of, the National Center for Supercomputing Applications’ earlier HTTPd (version 1.3). Apache is popular on UNIX-based systems, including Linux, and also runs on Windows NT and other operating systems, such as BeOS.

Apache Group n. A non-profit organization of volunteers from around the world that operates and contributes to the Apache HTTP Server Project.

Apache HTTP Server Project n. A collaborative effort by the members of the Apache Group to design, develop, and maintain the Apache HTTP (Web) server.

Apple II n. The second computer introduced by the Apple Computer Corporation, in April 1977. The Apple II featured 4 K dynamic RAM, expandable to 48 K (with 16 K chips), and used the 6502 microprocessor. The Apple II was the first computer to offer a TV video adapter as an optional alternative to a color computer monitor.

Apple Desktop Bus n. A serial communications pathway built into Apple Macintosh and Apple IIGS computers.

AppleDraw n. A shareware drawing application for Macintosh computers.

Apple Events n. A feature added to Mac OS System 7 that enables one application to send a command, such as save or open, to another application. See also Mac OS.

Apple key n. A key labeled with an outline of the Apple logo.

AppleScript n. A script language developed by Apple Computer, Inc., for Macintosh computers running under the Mac OS to execute commands and automate functions.

AppleShare n. A file server software developed by Apple Computer, Inc., that works with the Mac OS and allows one Macintosh computer to share files with another on the same network.

applet n. A program that can be downloaded over the Internet and executed on the recipient’s machine. Applets are often written in the Java programming language and  run within browser software, and they are typically used to customize or add interactive elements to a Web page.

AppleTalk n. An inexpensive local area network developed by Apple Computer, Inc., for Macintosh computers that can be used by Apple and non-Apple computers to communicate and share resources such as printers and file servers.

AppleWorks n. A suite of productivity applications, formerly known as ClarisWorks, distributed by Apple Computer, Inc., and shipped on the iMac computer.

application n. A program designed to assist in the performance of a specific task, such as word processing, accounting, or inventory management.

application developer n. An individual who designs and analyzes the appearance and operation of an application program.

application development environment n. An integrated suite of programs for use by software developers. Typical components of application development environments include a compiler, file browsing system, debugger, and text editor for use in creating programs.

application development language n. A computer language designed for creating applications. The term is usually restricted to refer to languages with specific highlevel constructs geared toward record design, form layout, database retrieval and update, and similar tasks.

application development system n. A programming environment designed for the development of an application, typically including a text editor, compiler, and linker, and often including a library of common software routines for use in the developed program.

application gateway n. Software running on a machine that is intended to maintain security on a secluded network yet allow certain traffic to go between the private network and the outside world. See also firewall.

application generator n. Software for generating source or machine code for running an application based on a description of the desired functionality.

application heap n. A block of RAM used by an application to store its code, resources, records, document data, and other information.

application layer n. The highest layer of standards in the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) reference model. The application layer contains signals that perform useful work for the user, such as file transfer or remote access to a computer, as opposed to lower levels, which control the exchange of data between transmitter and receiver.

application notification n. An application notification starts an application at a specified time or when a system event occurs.

arbitration n. A set of rules for resolving competing demands for a machine resource by multiple users or processes.

arithmetic n. The branch of mathematics dealing with the addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division of real numbers.

arithmetic expression n. A series of elements, including data labels and constants as well as numbers, that are joined by arithmetic operators, such as + and –, and can be calculated to produce a value.

arithmetic logic unit n. A component of a microprocessor chip used for arithmetic, comparative, and logical functions.

arithmetic operation n. Any of the standard calculations performed in arithmetic—addition, subtraction, multiplication, or division. The term is also used in reference to negative numbers and absolute values.

arithmetic operator n. An operator that performs an arithmetic operation: +, –,*, or /. An arithmetic operator usually takes one or two arguments.

array n. A list of data values, all of the same type, any element of which can be referenced by an expression consisting of the array name followed by an indexing expression. Arrays are part of the fundamentals of data structures, which, in turn, are a major fundamental of computer programming.

array element n. A data value in an array.

array processor n. A group of interconnected, identical processors operating synchronously, often under the control of a central processor.

arrow key n. Any of four keys labeled with arrows pointing up, down, left, and right, used to move the cursor vertically or horizontally on the display screen or, in some programs, to extend the highlight.

articulation n. A series of adjustments applied by a synthesizer to the pitch, volume, and other parameters of an instrument sound to make it more realistic.

artifact n. A visible imperfection or distortion in a digital image. Artifacts may be caused by hardware/software limitations or may be a byproduct of compression.

artificial intelligence n. The branch of computer science concerned with enabling computers to simulate such aspects of human intelligence as speech recognition, deduction, inference, creative response, the ability to learn from experience, and the ability to make inferences given incomplete information.

artificial life n. The study of computer systems that simulate some aspects of the behavior of living organisms. Artificial life includes systems in which programs intended to perform some particular task compete for survival and reproduction based on their performance.

artificial neural network n. A form of computer artificial intelligence that uses software based on concepts understood from biological neural networks to adaptively perform a task.

assembly n. A collection of one or more files that are versioned and deployed as a unit. An assembly is the primary building block of a .NET Framework application.

assembly language n. A low-level programming language using abbreviations or mnemonic codes in which each statement corresponds to a single machine instruction. An assembly language is translated to machine language by the assembler and is specific to a givenp rocessor.

atomic transaction n. A set of operations that follow an “all or nothing” principle, in which either all of the operations are successfully executed or none of them is executed. Atomic transactions are appropriate for order entry and fulfillment or for money transfers to ensure that information is fully updated.

audio compression n. A method of reducing the overall loudness of an audio signal. This is accomplished by limiting the amount of apparent distortion when the signal is played back through a speaker or transmitted through a communications link.

Authenticode n. A security feature of Microsoft Internet Explorer. Authenticode allows vendors of downloadable executable code to attach digital certificates to their products to assure end users that the code is from the original developer and has not been altered.

authoring language n. A computer language or application development system designed primarily for creating programs, databases, and materials for computer-aided instruction (CAI).

authoring software n. A type of computer program used for creating Web pages and other hypertext and multimedia applications. Authoring software provides a way to define relationships between different types of objects, including text, graphics, and sound, and to present them in a desired order.

authoring system n. Application software that enables the operator to create and format a document for a specific kind of computer environment.

autonomous system n. A group of routers or networks controlled by a single administrative authority using a common Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP) for routing packets. Each autonomous system is assigned a globally unique number called an autonomous-system number (ASN).

autosizing n. The ability of a monitor to accept signals at one resolution and display the image at a different resolution.

backup n. A duplicate copy of a program, a disk, or data, made either for archiving purposes or for safeguarding valuable files from loss should the active copy be damaged or destroyed.

bidirectional parallel port n. An interface that supports two-way parallel communication between a device, such as a printer, and a computer.

bidirectional printing n. The ability of an impact or inkjet printer to print from left to right and from right to left. Bidirectional printing improves speed substantially because no time is wasted returning the print head to the beginning of the next line, but it may lower print quality.

binary compatibility n. Portability of executable programs (binary files) from one platform, or flavor of operating system, to another.

binary conversion n. The conversion of a number to or from the binary number system.

binary device n. Any device that processes information as a series of on/off or high/low electrical states.

binary file n. A file consisting of a sequence of 8-bit data or executable code, as distinguished from files consisting of human-readable ASCII text.

binary file transfer n. Transfer of a file containing arbitrary bytes or words, as opposed to a text file containing only printable characters.

binary format n. Any format that structures data in 8-bit form. Binary format is generally used to represent object code (program instructions translated into a machinereadable form) or data in a transmission stream.

binary number n. A number expressed in binary form, or base 2.

binary search n. A type of search algorithm that seeks an item, with a known name, in an ordered list by first comparing the sought item to the item at the middle of the list’s order.

binary tree n. A type of tree data structure in which each node has at most two subtrees, one left and one right.

bionics n. The study of living organisms, their characteristics, and the ways they function, with a view toward creating hardware that can simulate or duplicate the activities of a biological system.

bit density n. A measure of the amount of information per unit of linear distance or surface area in a storage medium or per unit of time in a communications pipeline.

bit depth n. The number of bits per pixel allocated for storing indexed color information in a graphics file.

Boolean algebra n. An algebra, fundamental to computer operations but developed in the mid-nineteenth century by English mathematician George Boole, for determining whether logical propositions are true or false rather than for determining the values of numerical expressions.

browser n. Software that lets a user view HTML documents and access files and software related to those documents.

buffer pool n. A group of memory or storage-device locations that are allocated for temporary storage, especially during transfer operations.

buffer storage n. The use of a special area in memory to hold data temporarily for processing until a program or operating system is ready to deal with it.

built-in groups n. The default groups provided with Microsoft Windows NT and Windows NT Advanced Server.

bulk eraser n. A device for eliminating all information from a storage medium, such as a floppy disk or a tape, by generating a strong magnetic field that scrambles the alignment of the ferrous materials in the media that encode stored data.

burst mode n. A method of data transfer in which information is collected and sent as a unit in one high-speed transmission.

bus n. A set of hardware lines (conductors) used for data transfer among the components of a computer system.  Buses are characterized by the number of bits they can transfer at a single time, equivalent to the number of wires within the bus.

bus mouse n. A mouse that attaches to the computer’s bus through a special card or port rather than through a serial port.

C n. A programming language developed by Dennis Ritchie at Bell Laboratories. C is a compiled language that contains a small set of built-in functions that are machine dependent. The rest of the C functions are machine independent and are contained in libraries that can be accessed from C programs. C programs are composed of one or more functions defined by the programmer; thus C is a structured programming language.

C++ n. A version of the C programming language, developed by Bjarne Stroustrup in the early 1980s at Bell Laboratories and adopted by a number of vendors, including Apple Computer, Inc. and Sun Microsystems, Inc.

cable n. A collection of wires shielded within a protective tube, used to connect peripheral devices to a computer. A mouse, a keyboard, and a printer might all be connected to a computer with cables.

cache n. A special memory subsystem in which frequently used data values are duplicated for quick access. A memory cache stores the contents of frequently accessed RAM locations and the addresses where these data items are stored.

cache card n. An expansion card that increases a system’s cache memory.

cache farm n. A group of servers that save copies of Web pages to caches to fulfill successive requests without calling the pages up repeatedly from the Web server.

capacitance n. The ability to store an electric charge. Capacitance is measured in farads.

capacitor n. A circuit component that provides a known amount of capacitance (ability to store an electric charge). A capacitor typically consists of two conductive plates separated by an insulating (dielectric) material.

capacity n. The amount of information that a computer or an attached device can process or store.

card n. A printed circuit board or adapter that can be plugged into a computer to provide added functionality or new capability. These cards provide specialized services, such as mouse support and modem capabilities, that are not built into the computer.

cavity virus n. A type of virus that overwrites and hides within a section of the file it has infected. A cavity virus overwrites only a part of the host file filled with a constant, allowing the file to continue to function.

cell n. The intersection of a row and a column in a spreadsheet. Each row and column in a spreadsheet is unique, so each cell can be uniquely identified.

Cheese worm n. An Internet worm that patches security holes created by the Lion worm. The Cheese worm searches out and infects Linux-based systems that were previously compromised by the Lion worm, repairing vulnerabilities and closing a back door left by the earlier infection.

cluster analysis n. A technique used in data mining and knowledge discovery to group observations by identifying and extracting like or similar group conditions. Cluster analysis aims to describe the structure of a complex data set.

cluster virus n. A type of virus that infects once but gives the appearance of infecting every application launched. 

combinatorics n. A branch of mathematics related to probability and statistics, involving the study of counting, grouping, and arrangement of finite sets of elements.

command language n. The set of keywords and expressions that are accepted as valid by the command interpreter.

command line n. A string of text written in the command language and passed to the command interpreter for execution.

command-line interface n. A form of interface between the operating system and the user in which the user types commands, using a special command language.

command mode n. A mode of operation in which a program waits for a command to be issued.

comment n. Text embedded in a program for documentation purposes.

compiled language n. A language that is translated into machine code prior to any execution, as opposed to an interpreted language, which is translated and executed statement by statement.

compile time n. The amount of time required to perform a compilation of a program. Compile time can range from a fraction of a second to many hours, depending on the size and complexity of the program, the speed of the compiler, and the performance of the hardware.

compound document n. A document that contains different types of information, each type created with a different application.

compound statement n. A single instruction composed of two or more individual instructions.

compressed disk n. A hard disk or floppy disk whose apparent capacity to hold data has been increased through the use of a compression utility, such as Stacker or Double Space.

compressed file n. A file whose contents have been compressed by a special utility program so that it occupies less space on a disk or other storage device than in its uncompressed (normal) state.

CompuServe n. An online information service that is a subsidiary of America Online.

computer n. Any device capable of processing information to produce a desired result.

computer center n. A centralized location that contains computers, such as mainframes or minicomputers, along with associated equipment for providing data processing services to a group of people.

computer conferencing n. Person-to-person interaction through the use of computers located in different places but connected through communications facilities.

computer family n. A term commonly used to indicate a group of computers that are built around the same microprocessor or around a series of related microprocessors and that share significant design features.

computer game n. A class of computer program in which one or more users interacts with the computer as a form of entertainment.

computer-independent language n. A computer language designed to be independent of any given hardware platform.

computer language n. An artificial language that specifies instructions to be executed on a computer.

computer power n. The ability of a computer to perform work. If defined as the number of instructions the machine can carry out in a given time, computer power is measured in millions of instructions per second (MIPS) or millions of floating-point operations per second (MFLOPS).

computer program n. A set of instructions in some computer language intended to be executed on a computer so as to perform some task.

computer science n. The study of computers, including their design, operation, and use in processing information.

computer security n. The steps taken to protect a computer and the information it contains.

computer system n. The configuration that includes all functional components of a computer and its associated hardware.

configuration file n. A file that contains machine-readable operating specifications for a piece of hardware or software or that contains information on another file or on a specific user, such as the user’s logon ID.

congestion n. The condition of a network when the current load approaches or exceeds the available resources and bandwidth designed to handle that load at a particular location in the network.

connection n. A physical link via wire, radio, fiberoptic cable, or other medium between two or more communications devices.

console n. A control unit, such as a terminal, through which a user communicates with a computer.

content n. The data that appears between the starting and ending tags of an element in an SGML, XML, or HTML document.

CPU n. The computational and control unit of a computer. The CPU is the device that interprets and executes instructions.

crash recovery n. The ability of a computer to resume operation after a disastrous failure, such as the failure of a hard drive.

cyberspace n. The advanced shared virtual-reality network imagined by William Gibson in his novel Neuromancer (1982). The universe of environments, such as the Internet, in which persons interact by means of connected computers.

data n. Plural of the Latin datum, meaning an item of information.

database n. A file composed of records, each containing fields together with a set of operations for searching, sorting, recombining, and other functions.

data control n. The aspect of data management concerned with tracking how and by whom data is used, accessed, altered, owned, and reported on.

data definition language n. A language that defines all attributes and properties of a database, especially record layouts, field definitions, key fields, file locations, and storage strategy.

data file n. A file consisting of data in the form of text, numbers, or graphics, as distinct from a program file of commands and instructions.

data format n. The structure applied to data by an application program to provide a context in which the data can be interpreted.

data management n. The control of data from acquisition and input through processing, output, and storage.

data mining n. The process of identifying commercially useful patterns, problems, or relationships in a database, a Web server, or other computer repository through the use of advanced statistical tools.

data sharing n. The use of a single file by more than one person or computer. Data sharing can be done by physically transferring a file from one computer to another, or, more commonly, by networking and computer-to-computer communications.

data stream n. An undifferentiated, byte-by-byte flow of data.

data structure n. An organizational scheme, such as a record or array, that can be applied to data to facilitate interpreting the data or performing operations on it.

data switch n. A device that routes incoming data to various locations.

data type n. A set of data that specifies the possible range of values of the set, the operations that can be performed on the values, and the way in which the values are stored in memory.

DDoS n. A form of denial of service attack (DoS) originating from several computers that seeks to disrupt Web access by overwhelming a target with connection requests that cannot be completed.

decision support system n. A set of programs and related data designed to help with analysis and decision making.

device n. A generic term for a computer subsystem.

device address n. A location within the address space of a computer’s random access memory (RAM) that can be altered either by the microprocessor or by an external device.

device dependence n. The requirement that a particular device be present or available for the use of a program, interface, or protocol.

device driver n. A software component that permits a computer system to communicate with a device.

device independence n. A characteristic of a program, interface, or protocol that supports software operations that produce similar results on a wide variety of hardware.

dialect n. A variant of a language or protocol.

digital modem n. A communications device that acts as the intermediary between a digital device such as a computer or terminal and a digital communications channel.

direct access n. The ability of a computer to find and go straight to a particular storage location in memory or on disk to retrieve or store an item of information.

directory n. A catalog for filenames and other directories stored on a disk. A directory is a way of organizing and grouping the files so that the user is not overwhelmed by a long list of them.

display n. The visual output device of a computer, which is commonly a CRT-based video display.

doctype n. A declaration at the beginning of an SGML document that gives a public or system identifier for the document type definition (DTD) of the document.

document n. Any self-contained piece of work created with an application program and, if saved on disk, given a unique filename by which it can be retrieved.

documentation n. The set of instructions shipped with a program or a piece of hardware.

document file n. A user-created file that represents the output of a program.

document management n. The full spectrum of electronic document creation and distribution within an organization.

document management system n. A server-based network facility designed for the storage and handling of an organization’s documents.

domain n. The set of valid values for a given attribute in database design and management,.

domain name n. An address of a network connection that identifies the owner of that address in a hierarchical format: server.organization.type.

domain name address n. The address of a device connected to the Internet or any other TCP/IP network, in the hierarchical system that uses words to identify servers, organizations, and types, such as www.logos.net.

driver n. A hardware device or a program that controls or regulates another device.

DTD n. Acronym for document type definition. A separate document that contains formal definitions of all of the data elements in a particular type of HTML, SGML, or XML document, such as a report or a book.

dynamic HTML n. A technology designed to add richness, interactivity, and graphical interest to Web pages by providing those pages with the ability to change and update themselves dynamically—that is, in response to user actions, without the need for repeated downloads from a server.

dynamic Web page n. A Web page that has fixed form but variable content, allowing it to be tailored to a customer’s search criteria.

e-book n. Format allowing books and other large texts to be downloaded from a Web site and viewed digitally.

electron tube n. A device for switching and amplifying electronic signals.

email n. The exchange of text messages and computer files over a communications network, such as a local area network or the Internet, usually between computers or terminals. An electronic text message.

e-mail address n. A string that identifies a user so that the user can receive Internet e-mail.

e-mail filter n. A feature in e-mail-reading software that automatically sorts incoming mail into different folders or mailboxes based on information contained in the message.

engine n. A processor or portion of a program that determines how the program manages and manipulates data.

Enter key n. The key that is used at the end of a line or command to instruct the computer to process the command or text.

envelope n. A single unit of information that is grouped with other items, such as error-checking bits.

error n. A value or condition that is not consistent with the true, specified, or expected value or condition.

error control n. The section of a program, procedure, or function that checks for errors such as type mismatches, overflows and underflows, dangling or illegal pointer references, and memory-use inconsistencies.

error file n. A file that records the time and type of data processing and transmission errors.

Excel n. The spreadsheet software of Microsoft for Windows PCs and Macintosh computers. Excel is part of the family of Office products.

executive information system n. A set of tools designed to organize information into categories and reports.

expansion bus n. A group of control lines that provide a buffered interface to devices.

expert system n. An application program that makes decisions or solves problems in a particular field, such as finance or medicine, by using knowledge and analytical rules defined by experts in the field.

extended memory n. System memory beyond 1 megabyte in computers based on the Intel 80x86 processors.

extension n. A set of characters added to a filename that serves to extend or clarify its meaning or to identify a file as a member of a category.

failure n. The inability of a computer system or related device to operate reliably or to operate at all.

family n. A series of hardware or software products that have some properties in common, such as a series of personal computers from the same company, a series of CPU chips from the same manufacturer.

fax n. The transmission of text or graphics over telephone lines in digitized form.

fax machine n. A device that scans pages, converts the images of those pages to a digital format consistent with the international facsimile standard, and transmits the image through a telephone line.

feature n. A unique, attractive, or desirable property of a program or of a computer or other hardware.

file n. A complete, named collection of information, such as a program, a set of data used by a program, or a usercreated document.

file attribute n. A restrictive label attached to a file that describes and regulates its use.

file format n. The structure of a file that defines the way it is stored and laid out on the screen or in print.

file fragmentation n. The breaking apart of files as they are stored by the operating system into small, separate segments on disk.

file manager n. A module of an operating system or environment that controls the physical placement of and access to a group of program files.

file name n. The set of letters, numbers, and allowable symbols assigned to a file to distinguish it from all other files in a particular directory on a disk.

file recovery n. The process of reconstructing lost or unreadable files on disk.

file retrieval n. The act of accessing a data file and transferring it from a storage location to the machine where it is to be used.

file server n. A file-storage device on a local area network that is accessible to all users on the network.

filter n. A set of features within a program that reads its standard or designated input, transforms the input in some desired way, and then writes the output to its standard or designated output destination.

flash memory n. A type of nonvolatile memory. Flash memory is similar to EEPROM memory in function but it must be erased in blocks.

floppy disk n. A round piece of flexible plastic film coated with ferric oxide particles that can hold a magnetic field.

font n. A set of characters of the same typeface (such as Garamond), style (such as italic), and weight (such as bold).

font family n. The set of available fonts representing variations of a single typeface.

formal language n. A combination of syntax and semantics that completely defines a computer language.

forum n. A medium provided by an online service or BBS for users to carry on written discussions of a particular topic by posting messages and replying to them.

frame n. In asynchronous serial communications, a unit of transmission that is sometimes measured in elapsed time and begins with the start bit that precedes a character and ends with the last stop bit that follows the character.

freeware n. A computer program given away free of charge and often made available on the Internet or through user groups.

frequency n. The measure of how often a periodic event occurs, such as a signal going through a complete cycle.

fulfillment n. The process of delivering goods and services ordered by a consumer.

full-text search n. A search for one or more documents, records, or strings based on all of the actual text data rather than on an index containing a limited set of keywords.

generation n. A concept used to distinguish stored versions of a set of files.

GIF n. A graphics file format developed by CompuServe and used for transmitting raster images on the Internet.

GIF animation n. A file containing a series of graphics that are displayed in rapid sequence in a Web browser to appear as though they are a moving picture.

graph n. A data structure consisting of zero or more nodes and zero or more edges, which connect pairs of nodes.

hard disk n. A device containing one or more inflexible platters coated with material in which data can be recorded magnetically, together with their read/write heads, the head-positioning mechanism, and the spindle motor in a sealed case that protects against outside contaminants.

hardware n. The physical components of a computer system, including any peripheral equipment such as printers, modems, and mouse devices.

hidden file n. A file that, in order to protect it from deletion or modification, is not shown in the normal listing of the files contained in a directory.

hierarchical file system n. A system for organizing files on a disk in which files are contained in directories or folders, each of which can contain other directories as well as files.

hierarchy n. A type of organization that, like a tree, branches into more specific units, each of which is “owned” by the higher-level unit immediately above.

high-level language n. A computer language that provides a level of abstraction from the underlying machine language.

HTML n. The markup language used for documents on the World Wide Web.

HTTP n. The protocol used to carry requests from a browser to a Web server and to transport pages from Web servers back to the requesting browser.

HTTP server n. Server software that uses HTTP to serve up HTML documents and any associated files and scripts when requested by a client, such as a Web browser.

hub n. A device joining communication lines at a central location, providing a common connection to all devices on the network.

hyperlink n. A connection between an element in a hypertext document, such as a word, a phrase, a symbol, or an image, and a different element in the document, another document, a file, or a script.

hypertext n. Text linked together in a complex, nonsequential web of associations in which the user can browse through related topics.

iBook n. A notebook computer introduced by Apple in July 1999.

icon n. A small image displayed on the screen to represent an object that can be manipulated by the user.

image n. A stored description of a graphic picture, either as a set of brightness and color values of pixels or as a set of instructions for reproducing the picture.

information n. The meaning of data as it is intended to be interpreted by people.

information retrieval n. The process of finding, organizing, and displaying information, particularly by electronic means.

information science n. The study of how information is collected, organized, handled, and communicated.

input n. Information entered into a computer or program for processing, as from a keyboard or from a file stored on a disk drive.

input stream n. A flow of information used in a program as a sequence of bytes that are associated with a particular task or destination.

installation program n. A program whose function is to install another program, either on a storage medium or in memory.

instruction n. An action statement in any computer language, most often in machine or assembly language.

instruction register n. A register in a central processing unit that holds the address of the next instruction to be executed.

instruction set n. The set of machine instructions that a processor recognizes and can execute.

instruction time n. The number of clock ticks (pulses of a computer’s internal timer) required to retrieve an instruction from memory.

intelligence n. The ability of hardware to process information.

intelligent database n. A database that manipulates stored information in a way that people find logical, natural, and easy to use.

Intelligent hub n. A type of hub that, in addition to transmitting signals, has built-in capability for other network chores, such as monitoring or reporting on network status.

interactive fiction n. A type of computer game in which the user participates in a story by giving commands to the system.

interactive graphics n. A form of user interface in which the user can change and control graphic displays, often with the help of a pointing device such as a mouse or a joystick.

interface n. A connection which is made between two elements so that they can work with each other or exchange information.

Internet n. The worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the TCP/IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another.

Internet access n. The capability of a user to connect to the Internet.

Internet access device n. A communications and signal-routing mechanism, possibly incorporating usage tracking and billing features, for use in connecting multiple remote users to the Internet.

Internet Architecture Board n. The body of the Internet Society (ISOC) responsible for overall architectural considerations regarding the Internet.

Internet Directory n. Online database of sites organized by category where you can search for files and information by subject, keyword, or other criteria.

Internet Explorer n. Web browsing software of Microsoft.

Internet gateway n. A device that provides the connection between the Internet backbone and another network, such as a LAN (local area network).

Internet security n. A broad topic dealing with all aspects of data authentication, privacy, integrity, and verification for transactions over the Internet.

Internet Society n. An international, nonprofit organization based in Reston, Virginia, comprising individuals, companies, foundations, and government agencies, that promotes the use, maintenance, and development of the Internet.

interpreted language n. A language in which programs are translated into executable form and executed one statement at a time rather than being translated completely (compiled) before execution.

interprocess communication n. The ability of one task or process to communicate with another in a multitasking operating system.

IP address n. A 32-bit (4-byte) binary number that uniquely identifies a host (computer) connected to the Internet to other Internet hosts, for the purposes of communication through the transfer of packets.

Java n. An object-oriented programming language developed by Sun Microsystems, Inc.

JavaScript n. A scripting language developed by Netscape Communications and Sun Microsystems that is loosely related to Java.

Java Virtual Machine n. The environment in which Java programs run.

job queue n. A list of programs or tasks waiting for execution by a computer.

journal n. A computer-based log or record of transactions that takes place in a computer or across a network.

JPEG n. Acronym for Joint Photographic Experts Group. An ISO/ITU standard for storing images in compressed form using a discrete cosine transform.

.jpg n. The file extension that identifies graphic images encoded in the JPEG File Interchange Format, as originally specified by the Joint Photographic Experts Group (JPEG).

JScript n. An interpreted, object-based scripting language that borrows from C, C++, and Java.

key n. On a keyboard, the combination of a plastic keycap, a tension mechanism that suspends the keycap but allows it to be pressed down, and an electronic mechanism that records the key press and key release.

keyboard n. A hardware unit with a set of switches that resembles a typewriter keyboard and that conveys information from a user to a computer or data communications circuit.

keyboard buffer n. An amount of system memory that stores the most recently typed characters.

keyboard controller n. A microprocessor installed in a keyboard whose primary function is to wait for and report on keystrokes.

keyboard layout n. The key arrangement used for a particular keyboard, including such factors as the number of keys and the configuration of the keys.

key code n. A unique code number assigned to a particular key on a computer keyboard, used to tell the computer which key has been pressed or released.

keyword n. A characteristic word, phrase, or code that is stored in a key field and is used to conduct sorting or searching operations on records in a database.

knowledge base n. A form of database used in expert systems that contains the accumulated body of knowledge of human specialists in a particular field.

knowledge domain n. The specific area of expertise to which an expert system is devoted.

label n. An identifier. It can be a physical item, word, symbol, or other group of characters used to identify a file.

LAN n. A group of computers and other devices dispersed over a relatively limited area and connected by a communications link that enables any device to interact with any other on the network.

language n. Any artificial language that can be used to define a sequence of instructions that can ultimately be processed and executed by the computer.

language processor n. A hardware device or a software program designed to accept instructions written in a particular language and translate them into machine code.

laptop n. A small, portable personal computer that runs on either batteries or AC power, designed for use during travel.

laser printer n. An electrophotographic printer that is based on the technology used by photocopiers.

layer n. The protocol or protocols operating at a particular level within a protocol suite, such as IP within the TCP/IP suite.

layout n. The overall plan or design of a document system.

legend n. Text that describes or explains a graphic, usually printed below the graphic.

library n. In programming, a collection of routines stored in a file. Each set of instructions in a library has a name, and each performs a different task. A collection of software or data files.

license agreement n. A legal contract between a software provider and a user specifying the rights of the user regarding the software.

liquid crystal display n. A type of display that uses a liquid compound having a polar molecular structure, sandwiched between two transparent electrodes.

machine code n. The ultimate result of the compilation of assembly language or any high-level language such as C or Pascal: sequences of 1s and 0s that are loaded and executed by a microprocessor.

machine error n. A hardware error. Probably the most common type of machine error involves media, such as an error in reading a hard disk.

machine identification n. A code by which an executing program can determine the identity and characteristics of the computer and other devices with which it is operating.

machine translation n. The use of computer software to translate large amounts of text from one natural language into another.

Macintosh n. A popular series of personal computers introduced by the Apple Computer Corporation in January 1984.

mainframe n. A type of large computer system (in the past often water-cooled), the primary data processing resource for many large businesses and organizations.

main function n. The main body of a program written in a computer language that uses sets of functions to create an entire program.

managed code n. Code that is executed by the common language runtime environment rather than directly by the operating system.

manager n. Any program that is designed to perform a certain set of housekeeping tasks related to computer operation, such as the maintenance of files.

markup n. Comments and tracked changes such as insertions, deletions, and formatting changes that you can view or print.

markup language n. A set of codes in a text file that instructs a computer how to format the file on a printer or video display or how to index and link its contents.

matrix n. An arrangement of rows and columns used for organizing related items, such as numbers, dots, spreadsheet cells, or circuit elements.

mechanical mouse n. A type of mouse in which the motion of a ball on the bottom of the mouse is translated into directional signals.

memory n. A device where information can be stored and retrieved.

memory management program n. A program used to store data and programs in system memory, monitor their use, and reassign the freed space following their execution.

metadata n. Data about data.

method n. A process in object-oriented programming performed by an object when it receives a message.

microprocessor n. A central processing unit (CPU) on a single chip.

mode n. The operational state of a computer or a program.

model n. A mathematical or graphical representation of a real-world situation or object—for example, a mathematical model of the distribution of matter in the universe, a spreadsheet (numeric) model of business operations, or a graphical model of a molecule.

modeling n. The use of computers to describe the behavior of a system.

modem n. A communications device that converts between digital data from a computer or terminal and analog audio signals that can pass through a standard telephone line.

module n. A collection of routines and data structures that performs a particular task or implements a particular abstract data type.

monitor n. The device on which images generated by the computer’s video adapter are displayed.

motherboard n. The main circuit board containing the primary components of a computer system.

motion path n. The path that a specified object or text will follow as part of an animation sequence for a slide.

mouse n. A common pointing device.

Mozilla n. A nickname for the Web browser of the Netscape Communicator, coined by the Netscape Corporation.

multimedia n. The combination of sound, graphics, animation, and video.

multipartite virus n. A type of virus that combines characteristics and techniques of both boot sector and file viruses.

multiprocessing n. A mode of operation in which two or more connected and roughly equal processing units each carry out one or more processes (programs or sets of instructions) in tandem.

namespace n. A grouping of one or more names that represent individual objects within the group in a shared computing environment, such as a network.

native application n. A program that is designed specifically for a particular type of microprocessor, that is, a program that is binary compatible with a processor.

natural language n. A language spoken or written by humans, as opposed to a programming language or a machine language.

natural language query n. A query to a database system that is composed in a subset of a natural language, such as English or Japanese.

navigation keys n. The keys on a keyboard controlling cursor movement, including the four arrow keys and the Backspace, End, Home, Page Down, and Page Up keys.

network n. A group of computers and associated devices that are connected by communications facilities.

network architecture n. The underlying structure of a computer network, including hardware, functional layers, interfaces, and protocols, used to establish communication and ensure the reliable transfer of information.

network computer n. A computer designed for use on a network in which programs and storage are provided by servers.

network operating system n. An operating system specifically designed to support networking.

nickname n. A name used in the destination field of an e-mail editor in place of one or more complete network addresses.

normal form n. An approach in a relational database to structuring (organizing) information in order to avoid redundancy and inconsistency and to promote efficient maintenance, storage, and updating.

notation n. The set of symbols and formats used to describe the elements of programming, mathematics, or a scientific field.

NPN transistor n. A type of transistor in which a base of P-type material is sandwiched between an emitter and a collector of N-type material.

object n. A variable comprising both routines and data that is treated as a discrete entity.

object code n. The code, generated by a compiler or an assembler, that was translated from the source code of a program.

object model n. The structural foundation for an object-oriented language, such as C++.

Office n. Microsoft’s family of individual and business application software suites for the Windows and Macintosh platforms.

on-screen keyboard n. An interactive keyboard that appears as a graphical image on the display screen of a computing device.

open source n. The practice of making the source code(program instructions) for a software product freely available, at no cost, to interested users and developers, even though they were not involved in creating the original product.

operating system n. The software that controls the allocation and usage of hardware resources such as memory, central processing unit (CPU) time, disk space, and peripheral devices.

operation n. A specific action carried out by a computer in the process of executing a program.

operation code n. The portion of a machine language or assembly language instruction that specifies the type of instruction and the structure of the data on which it operates.

operator n. A symbol or other character in mathematics and in programming and computer applications indicating an operation that acts on one or more elements.

optical mouse n. A type of mouse that uses a CMOS digital camera and a digital signal processor to detect motion.

optomechanical mouse n. A type of mouse in which motion is translated into directional signals through a combination of optical and mechanical means.

.org n. The toplevel domain in the Internet’s Domain Name System that identifies addresses operated by organizations that do not fit any of the other standard domains.

output stream n. A flow of information that leaves a computer system and is associated with a particular task or destination.

outsourcing n. The assignment of tasks to independent contractors, such as individual consultants or service bureaus.

overwriting virus n. A type of virus that overwrites the host file it has infected, destroying the original data.

package n. A computer application consisting of one or more programs created to perform a particular type of work.

page n. The text and display elements In word processing to be printed on one side of a sheet of paper, subject to formatting specifications such as depth, margin size, and number of columns.

paragraph n. Any part of a document in word processing preceded by one paragraph mark and ending with another.

parameter n. A value that is given to a variable, either at the beginning of an operation or before an expression is evaluated by a program.

Pascal n. A concise procedural language designed between 1967 and 1971 by Niklaus Wirth.

passive hub n. A type of hub used on ARCnet networks that passes signals along but has no additional capability.

Passport n. A suite of personal identification services from Microsoft that consolidates user names, passwords, and other information.

password n. The string of characters entered by a user to verify his or her identity to the network.

password protection n. The use of passwords as a means of allowing only authorized users access to a computer system or its files.

path n. A route through a structured collection of information, as in a database, a program, or files stored on disk.

PC n. A microcomputer that conforms to the standard developed by IBM for personal computers, which uses a microprocessor in the Intel 80x86 family (or compatible) and can execute the BIOS.

Pentium n. A family of 32-bit microprocessors introduced by Intel in March 1993 as the successor to the i486.

peripheral n. A device, such as a disk drive, printer, modem, or joystick, that is connected to a computer and is controlled by the computer’s microprocessor.

Perl n. An interpreted language, based on C and several UNIX utilities.

PHP n. A scripting language used with HTML documents to execute server-side interactive functions.

PIN n. A unique code number used to gain access to personal information or assets via an electronic device.

pixel n. One spot in a rectilinear grid of thousands of such spots that are individually “painted” to form an image produced on the screen by a computer or on paper by a printer.

pixel image n. The representation of a color graphic in a computer’s memory.

plug n. A connector, especially a male connector, one that fits into a socket. See also male connector.

plug and play n. The ability of a computer system to automatically configure a device added to it.

plug-in n. A small software program that plugs into a larger application to provide added functionality.

PNG n. A file format for bitmapped graphic images, designed to be a replacement for the GIF format, without the legal restrictions associated with GIF.

portable computer n. Any computer designed to be moved easily.

portable language n. A language that runs in the same way on different systems and therefore can be used for developing software for all of them.

PowerPoint n. Microsoft’s presentation software.

printer n. A computer peripheral that puts text or a computer-generated image on paper or on another medium, such as a transparency film.

printer driver n. A software program designed to enable other programs to work with a particular printer without concerning themselves with the specifics of the printer’s hardware and internal language.

program n. A sequence of instructions that can be executed by a computer.

programming n. The art and science of creating computer programs.

protocol n. A set of rules or standards designed to enable computers to connect with one another and to exchange information with as little error as possible.

protocol stack n. The set of protocols that work together on different levels to enable communication on a network.

protocol suite n. A set of protocols designed, usually by one vendor, as complementary parts of a protocol stack.

Python n. A portable, interpreted, object-oriented programming language developed and freely distributed by its developer.

query n. A set of instructions for extracting particular data.

query language n. A subset of the data manipulation language; specifically, that portion relating to the retrieval and display of data from a database.

QuickTime n. Software components developed by Apple for creating, editing, publishing, and viewing multimedia content.

random access n. The ability of a computer to find and go directly to a particular storage location without having to search sequentially from the beginning location.

range n. A block of cells selected for similar treatment in a spreadsheet.

real storage n. The amount of RAM memory in a system, as distinguished from virtual memory.

recovery n. The restoration of lost data or the reconciliation of conflicting or erroneous data after a system failure.

relative path n. A path that is implied by the current working directory.

remote access n. The use of a remote computer.

remote system n. The computer or network that a remote user is accessing via a modem.

report n. The presentation of information about a given topic, typically in printed form.

resource n. Any part of a computer system or a network, such as a disk drive, printer, or memory, that can be allotted to a program or a process while it is running.

root n. The main or uppermost level in a hierarchically organized set of information.

routine n. Any section of code that can be invoked (executed) within a program.

scanner n. An optical input device that uses light-sensing equipment to capture an image on paper or some other subject.

schema n. A description of a database to a database management system (DBMS) in the language provided by the DBMS.

script n. A program consisting of a set of instructions to an application or a utility program.

search n. The process of seeking a particular file or specific data.

search engine n. A program that searches for keywords in documents or in a database.

security n. The technologies used to make a service resistant to unauthorized access to the data that it holds or for which it is responsible.

semantics n. The relationship between words or symbols and their intended meanings.

server n. An administrative software that controls access to the network and its resources, such as printers and disk drives, and provides resources to computers functioning as workstations on the network. On the Internet or other network, a computer or program that responds to commands from a client.

service n. A customer-based or user-oriented function, such as technical support or network provision.

session n. The time during which a program is running.

shareware n. Copyrighted software that is distributed on a try-before-you-buy basis.

simulation n. The imitation of a physical process or an object by a program that causes a computer to respond mathematically to data and changing conditions as though it were the process or object itself.

social engineering n. The practice of penetrating system security by tricking individuals into divulging passwords and information about network vulnerabilities.

software n. Programs or instructions of the computer that make hardware work.

software house n. An organization that develops and supports software for its customers.

source n. A disk, file, document, or other collection of information in information processing from which data is taken or moved.

source code n. Human-readable program statements written by a programmer or developer in a high-level or assembly language that are not directly readable by a computer.

source data n. The original data on which a computer application is based.

source data acquisition n. The process of sensing, as with a bar code reader or other scanning device, or receiving source data.

source document n. The original document from which data is taken.

source drive n. The disk drive from which files are being copied during a copy operation.

source file n. A file that contains source code.

source language n. The programming language in which the source code for a program is written.

source program n. The source code version of a program.

stack n. A region of reserved memory in which programs store status data such as procedure and function call addresses, passed parameters, and sometimes local variables.

system n. Any collection of component elements that work together to perform a task.

system failure n. The inability of a computer to continue functioning, usually caused by software rather than hardware.

System file n. A resource file on the Macintosh that contains the resources needed by the operating system, such as fonts, icons, and default dialog boxes.

systems analysis n. The examination of a system or problem with the goal of either improving an existing system or designing and implementing a new one.

systems programming n. The development or maintenance of programs designed to execute as part of an operating system, such as I/O routines, user interfaces, command-line interpreters, and task-scheduling and memory management routines.

system support n. The provision of services and material resources for the use, maintenance, and improvement of an implemented system.

table n. A data structure in programming usually consisting of a list of entries, each entry being identified by a unique key and containing a set of related values.

task management n. The operating-system process of tracking the progress of and providing necessary resources for separate tasks that are running on a computer, especially in a multitasking environment.

technology n. The application of science and engineering to the development of machines and procedures in order to enhance or improve human conditions, or at least to improve human efficiency in some respect.

telecommunications n. The transmission and reception of information of any type, including data, television pictures, sound, and facsimiles, using electrical or optical signals sent over wires or fibers or through the air.

temporary file n. A file created either in memory or on disk, by the operating system or some other program, to be used during a session and then discarded.

terminal adapter n. The correct name for an ISDN modem, which connects a PC to an ISDN line but does not modulate or demodulate signals as a typical modem does.

text entry n. The inputting of text characters by means of a keyboard.

text file n. A file composed of text characters.

theme n. A set of visual elements that provide a unified look for your computer desktop.

token n. A unique structured data object or message that circulates continuously among the nodes of a token ring and describes the current state of the network.

topology n. The configuration or layout of a network formed by the connections between devices on a LAN (local area network) or between two or more LANs.

trailer n. Information, typically occupying several bytes, at the tail end of a block (section) of transmitted data and often containing a checksum or other error-checking data useful for confirming the accuracy and status of the transmission.

transistor n. A solid-state circuit component, usually with three leads, in which a voltage or a current controls the flow of another current.

tree network n. A topology for a local area network (LAN) in which one machine is connected to one or more other machines, each of which is connected to one or more others, and so on, so that the structure formed by the network resembles that of a tree.

Trojan horse n. A destructive program as an application, utility, or game.

Unicode n. A 16-bit character encoding standard developed by the Unicode Consortium between 1988 and 1991.

Uniform Resource Citation n. A description of an object on the World Wide Web, consisting of pairs of attributes and their values, such as the Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs) of associated resources, author names, publisher names, dates, and prices.

Uniform Resource Identifier n. A character string used to identify a resource (such as a file) from anywhere on the Internet by type and location.

Uniform Resource Locator n. An address for a resource on the Internet.

Uniform Resource Name n. A scheme for uniquely identifying resources that might be available on the Internet by name, without regard to where they are located.

username n. The name by which a user is identified to a computer system or network.

utility n. A program designed to perform a particular function; the term usually refers to software that solves narrowly focused problems or those related to computer system management.

utility program n. A program designed to perform maintenance work on the system or on system components.

value n. A quantity assigned to an element such as a variable, symbol, or label.

version n. A particular issue or release of a hardware product or software title.

virtual LAN n. A local area network consisting of groups of hosts that are on physically different segments but that communicate as though they were on the same wire.

virtual name space n. The set of all hierarchical sequences of names that can be used by an application to locate objects.

virtual network n. A part of a network that appears to a user to be a network of its own.

virtual path n. A sequence of names that is used to locate a file and that has the same form as a pathname in the file system but is not necessarily the actual sequence of directory names under which the file is located.

virtual root n. The root directory that a user sees when connected to an Internet server, such as an HTTP or FTP server.

virus n. An intrusive program that infects computer files by inserting in those files copies of itself.

Visual Basic n. A trademarked name owned by Microsoft Corporation for a high-level, visual-programming version of Basic.

Visual C++ n. A Microsoft application development system for the programming language C++ that runs under MS-DOS and Windows.

Visual Studio n. Microsoft’s suite of software development tools for rapid development of business applications and components.

web n. A set of interlinked documents in a hypertext system.

Web browser n. Software that lets a user view HTML documents and access files and software related to those documents.

Web page n. A document on the World Wide Web. A Web page consists of an HTML file, files for graphics and scripts, in a particular directory on a particular machine (identifiable by a URL).

Web services n. A collection of Web protocol–based applications that can be mixed and matched to provide business functionality through an Internet connection.

Windows n. An operating system introduced by Microsoft Corporation in 1983.

Windows XP n. A member of the Microsoft Windows family of operating systems.

Word n. Microsoft’s word processing software, available for the Windows and Macintosh platforms.

word processor n. An application program for creating and manipulating text-based documents.

World Wide Web n. The total set of interlinked hypertext documents residing on HTTP servers all around the world.

worm n. A program that propagates itself across computers, usually by creating copies of itself in each computer’s memory.

XML n. A condensed form of SGML (Standard Generalized Markup Language).

XML attribute n. Information added to a tag to provide more information about the tag.

XML Schema n. A specification providing a common base for data description and validation in XML environments.

.zip n. A file extension that identifies a compressed archive file encoded in ZIP format, as by PKZIP.
